# gf-dbinsert

gf-dbdelete is a command-line tool designed to provide a standardized interface for insertion of rows into tables in a data source. By utilizing a JSON-based input format and providing consistent functionality across data sources.

## Usage

```sh
gf-dbinsert [-schema <schema-json>] <driver> <data-source>
gf-dbinsert -h | --help
```

To use gf-dbinsert with Spanner, specify `spanner` as the `<driver>` and provide a string in the format `projects/<project>/instances/<instance>/databases/<database>` as the `<data-source>`. In this format, `<project>` represents the name of your Google Cloud Platform (GCP) project, `<instance>` is the name of your Spanner instance in the GCP project, and `<database>` is the name of the database within the Spanner instance.

To use gf-dbinsert with SQLite3, set `sqlite3` as the `<driver>` and provide a connection string as the `<data-source>`.
The connection string should follow the format described in [https://github.com/mattn/go-sqlite3#connection-string](https://github.com/mattn/go-sqlite3#connection-string), such as `file:test.db?cache=shared&mode=memory`.


`gf-dbdump` fetches schema information to prepare for the deletion and saves the information to a cache file. If the cache file already exists then `gf-dbdump` uses tht file instead of  fetching the schema information again. To specify the cache file, specify a path of the file as `<schema-json>` using the `-schema` option. The format of the cache file should follow the JSON format described in the Output section in the README.md file of [dbschema](../dbschema/README.md). The default value for `<schema-json>` is `.gf-schema.json`.


## Input

gf-dbinsert expects a JSON array as input from stdin. The JSON array should have the following structure `dbinsertInput`:

```ts
type dbinsertInput = {
    "name": string, // name of the table into which rows are to be inserted.
    "rows": Row[]   // rows to be inserted into the table.
}[]
type Row = { 
    // mapping from column name to column value in a row
    [column: string]: ColumnValue
}
// column value in a row can take the following types
type ColumnValue = null | number | boolean | string
```

Here's an example:
```json
[
    {
        "name": "User",
        "rows": [
            { "id": 1, "name": "Jumpaku", "isGuest": false},
            { "id": 2, "name": null, "isGuest": true}
        ]
    }, {
        "name": "Comment",
        "rows": [
            { "id": 1, "userId": 1, "content": "Hello" },
            { "id": 2, "userId": 1, "content": "Bye" }
        ]
    }
]
```

In this example, the JSON input instructs gf-dbinsert to insert rows into the User table first and then insert the other rows into the Comment table.

## Output

There is no specific output generated by gf-dbinsert.